# Customer-Churn-Analytics
A Comparative Study on Machine Learning Algorithms for Customer Churn Analytics. (Python)
With the increase in competition and technological advancements in the Telecommunications Industry, being able to assess and predict the customer attribution ahead of time is of extreme importance to a company. This Research project describes the application of Machine Learning and Neural Network techniques in Python to predict customer churn. Customer churn is considered to be the major problem in the telecommunications industry. Numerous studies have shown that attracting new customers in a telecommunications industry is much more expensive than retaining existing ones. Therefore, companies are focusing on developing accurate and reliable predictive models to identify potential customers that will churn in the near future. The aim of this project is investigating the main reasons for churn telecommunications sector.

#Purpose of the Study
A telecom company has been affected by the increasing number of customers subscribing to the services of a competitor. It is costlier to attract prime customer than to retain an old customer. At the same time, spending too much on or spending on the wrong factor for retaining customer who has no intention to leave (or who was not leaving for that factor which was addressed) could be a waste of money. Therefore, it is important to identify the customer who has high probability of leaving and zero down on the reason for it. An analysis of the past records of the customers can give great insights on who might leave and what is the cause. The telecom company already has this data available and data scientist need not collect the data in this case.
